>> Brian Holt: Let's write some SSR by
hand, because that seems to be the thing
that I like to do, mutual torture
essentially I'm just kidding.
This I actually didn't really
do enjoy writing this stuff.
Okay, so we're gonna make
a new directory here, SSR.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
I'm gonna open this in code,
we're gonna do another npm init -y.
We're gonna npm install fastify.
I don't really care what node
server you're gonna use,
you could just do node HTTP as well,
we'll do that again later.
I generally default to fastify,
it's just the one that I know the best.
But you could do this with Express,
you could do this with Koa,
all those are totally fine.
React, react-dom, and
vite, we're gonna need all of those.
Point of caution for those people watching
this later, just be careful of versions.
So let's just take a look at this uh-oh,
we need them completed there we go, okay.
In SSR, in package.json,
sometimes these drift by
the time I'd say you watch these,
and when I create them.
So these are the versions
that I'm using now,
if you see weird errors that I'm
not seeing here, then just try and
going back and installing
the versions that I had them at.
All of these, like fastify and fastify
static, don't change too much from release
to release I wouldn't
worry too much about it.
But if there's a new major release,
you might be suspicious.
>> Brian Holt: In fact, a really easy
thing to do would just be grab this,
paste this is your package.json,
and say npm install.
In fact,
maybe that's just what I'll do right now.
>> Brian Holt: Package.json, blah,
save that and then just say npm install,
and that'll guarantee you that
you get the right versions.
>> Brian Holt: There you go, easy peasy.
>> Brian Holt: I was gonna have you put
in here as well, build and start, so
vite build, right?
That's actually going
to build your project.
Do we need that?
I don't actually remember.
But start,
that's the part that I really care about,
is node, and it'll run server.js, yep.
And then we also did put in
here as well type of module.
So if you didn't put that in there,
make sure you have that in there
let's make that a bit bigger.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
let's go make a index.html.
This is gonna look eerily similar
to what you've written before,
and we're gonna say this
is react SSR example.
And I'm gonna have an id "root" here,
and I'm just gonna put.
>> Brian Holt: There we go.
The one thing I'm gonna say before we get
too much further into this server-side
rendering, and then client side hydration,
which we're about to do in just a second,
is extremely sensitive to white space.
So just be suspicious of
that in your head here,
if you see anything about hydration
errors, it's probably white space.
So in other words, don't have this, or
you're gonna have a bad time.
>> Speaker 2: Can you explain why that is,
why is this in the DOI space?
>> Brian Holt: So what's gonna happen is
you're going to put your app in here and
you're gonna ship a complete markup, and
then it's gonna have a hash on it,
on the server setting.
I hash it to this and then it's
gonna happen on the client side and
the client's gonna say, I hash it to this,
and if they don't match it says,
I give up, I'm gonna render it myself,
right, does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: So you just lose
the benefit of the SSR content, is that?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you get all
the downside and none of the upside.
Okay, so we talked about hydration errors,
we'll get there,
cuz I guarantee you
somebody's gonna see it.
We're gonna do just vanilla,
no JSX, react, again,
this would be actually pretty easy to do
with vite, you could just do the --SSR.
It actually has a feature built into
it for server-side rendering apps.
We're just gonna keep things
as simple as possible here cuz
the client-side reactor is not
the interesting part of this.
So we're gonna do app.js here and
we're gonna say import createelement as h,
and then we're also gonna
put a useState in here.
I wanna show you that this
actually does translate to
a interactive client-side app.
And then we're gonna do a function app.
This is gonna look really similar, we're
just gonna add additional button that does
count because it's reacting,
we love counting things.
So const count, setcount = usestate 0 or
1, or whatever you wanna put there,
and then we're gonna say return h,
put a "div", null, h "h1",
null, "Hello Frontend Master".
>> Brian Holt: H("p", null,
"this is SSR").
And then one more, for good measure,
we're gonna put a button.
>> Brian Holt: Hopefully,
this is making you grateful for JSX,
cuz it gets a bit tedious to write,
doesn't it?
Onclick.
>> Brian Holt: SetCount(count +1),
and then we'll put 'Count: ').
Notice these are back ticks,
so I'm doing a template string
count to count, and
then down here export default app.
I will save at this time, it's only once.
Actually it's the first time I've done,
that's finally the first time I've done
it today, if we're being really honest.
So, a div, inside of it there's
an h1 there's a paragraph, and
there's a button, and the button allows
you to change the text on the button.
Truly, miraculous work here,
changing lives,
that's what I like to tell myself
I'm up here changing lives.